# Configuration

The configuration `config.yaml` has three required properties:

1. `inputFilePath`: The path to the input dataset. At this point in time, the snippets have to be functions: either methods or constructors. The input dataset should be in the following format:

```json
{
    "snippet1_id": "snippet1",
    "snippet2_id": "snippet2"
}
```

2. `outputFilePath`: The path to the output dataset. The output format is the same as the input format.
3. `transformers`: This defines what transformers to apply to the dataset in which order.

The following transformers are available:

- forToWhileTransformer
- nestElseIfTransformer
- reverseIfTransformer
- swapRelationOperandsTransformer
- expandUnaryIncrementTransformer
- swapEqualsOperandsTransformer
- variableNameTransformer
- functionNameTransformer
- parameterNameTransformer

### IdentifierTransformer configuration

The Identifier need additional configuration: We need to specify how to generate new variable names (synonyms). We can either choose 
`lexicalSynonymGenerator` for lexical synonyms, or `llmSynonymGenerator` to generate context-aware synonyms using an 
LLM. If we choose the `llmSynonymGenerator`, we need to specify the LLM to use (Only openai with ChatGPT-4o-mini is 
supported at this point in time), and optionally provide a path to store LLM responses).

## Example configuration:

```yaml

inputFilePath: "datasets/defects4j-chart-1.json"
outputFilePath: "datasets/defects4j-chart-1-transformed.json"

transformers:
  - name: variableNameTransformer
  - name: forToWhileTransformer

synonymGenerator:
  name: llmSynonymGenerator
  llm:
    name: openai
    model: ChatGPT4o-mini
    cachePath: ".llmcache.db"
```

Using this configuration, the system will load the snippets in `datasets/defects4j-chart-1.json`, apply variable
renaming with synonyms generated by ChatGPT4o-mini (With response caching), transform for loops to while loops and write the 
transformed snippets to `datasets/defects4j-chart-1-transformed.json`